---
title: Some Thoughts Recently
Author: Adam
---

On the last night of 4-day Thanksgiving holiday, three days before my 24th birthday, I experience a fused feeling of deep perplexity, doubt and weakness. I have always hold the belief that my whole life would be about observing, thinking, apprieciating, and trying to explain the randomness of the world. I regard that as the supreme goal of my life.  And most of the intellectual efforts that I have made was to serve that goal. However, I found the more I tried to find the explanation of the all kinds of uncertainty in the world, the more I feel weak and incompetent. 

I have been reading papers on Nonparametric bayesian and generative model, such as Variational auto-encoder, Genrative adverserial network. As a PhD student, I keep remind myself that I cannot aim to big. I have to find a specific area that I have the capability that I can work on. I have heard of some other PhD student talked about their expectation on doing research. Some friend said you need to find some aspect that could be improved based on an exisiting paper since it is easier and that your method should be related to some "buzz word" or nobody will have time and interest to look at your paper. I didn't respond to my friend at that time, but his arguement did put me into thought. Finally, I don't think I can argee with him. For me, I would like to aim for things related to my goal. In my mind, the work should either provide insight into a problem or it possesses beauty mathematically. 


